>> Scott Moss: Let's go to
the part that we'll be using.
So that's how you would do it.
And plain old fetch, we're not gonna
use fetch, we're gonna use something,
we're gonna use a GraphQL Client.
There's so many of them.
The most popular one is called Apollo.
They have a frontend component,
they have a backend component.
On the server side GraphQL,
I will be using Apollo on the server side.
But for the frontend, I'm actually
not using Apollo on the frontend and
it's not because I don't like it.
I don't think it's good.
I actually think it's probably
the best one you can use.
I just don't think it's the appropriate
tool to introduce people to client-side
GraphQL because, it's so complex and
it makes so many assumptions
about your knowledge of GraphQL.
It gets quite confusing its I kind of
think of it as the Angular of GraphQL,
where it's useful and it's good.
But like, the terms they use and the
things that they do are off putting for
people when they first learn it's just so
much.
Whereas like this one, which is pronounced
Er-kull or Urql but I'm pretty sure it's
pronounced Er-kull, that's too clever for
it not to be pronounced that way.
So I [LAUGH] I think that's what it's.
I'm pretty sure that's how you print.
At least that's what I call it.
I call it Er-kull but
I heard some people say Urql.
This was like a more lightweight client.
It has pretty much the same
features as Apollo,
but their APIs is a lot easier
to digest and it's just simpler.
Their docs are not as intimidating.
Apollo is such a huge
company at this point.
Their documentation is like
looking at Google's documentation.
If you ever had to look at
Google's SDK documentation,
it's just the most terrifying
thing you've ever seen.
Apollo's kind of like that.
So it's not that it's bad,
it's great, I love it, but
not the best thing to use when
you're starting to learn.
So we're gonna use Urql.
What is a GraphQL client?
What the hell is a GraphQL client?
Well, it's basically a wrapper
around the fetch like I showed you,
but it does a bunch of stuff.
It gives us hooks for React so
we can do queries and mutations.
If you ever used something like React
Query or SWR with Next.js, it's like that.
But for GraphQL,
that's the best way I can describe it,
which is kinda confusing because you can
also use GraphQL for those things as well.
I know it's very confusing.
The biggest difference I would say is
something called normalized caching.
We'll talk about that eventually.
But because everything in
GraphQL is essentially a node it
can do normalize caching on the frontend.
Which allows you to do like optimistic
updates and like better cache rewriting,
whereas if you do something
like React Query or SWR,
you don't get normalized caching, you have
to rewrite the cache on a request basis.
Like for this whole request,
rewrite this cache whereas maybe I
don't wanna rewrite the whole request.
I just wanna change just this one
to do in this list of to dos.
So normalized caching is something that
a lot of people speak highly of, but
I would say most people
don't even really need it.
But anyway, we'll be using it,
we get it for free.
So first thing first,
let's set up this Urql client in our app.
So what we need to do is need
to go to our app folder and
make a new file called gqlProvider.tsx and
here is all the code for it.
So if you want you can just throw it in
there I'm gonna go through it all one by
one just to kind of tell you like
what's actually happening and
I'll be referencing this so I keep
my code very similar to what's here.
So let's go do that.
So I'm gonna go back to my code.
I'm gonna go to my app directory.
I'm gonna make a new folder.
I'm gonna call it
gqlProvider.tsx.
And again,
this is I'm on the client zero branch.
So if you're on the main branch,
this is already here.
It's already filled out.
If you're like, why?
How's he making this file?
It's already here.
You're on the wrong branch.
Go to client zero.
It should not be there.
If it is there,
I don't know how it got there, but
everything from the client
should be deleted.
So first thing is we're gonna import
all of our stuff from Urql It
should already be installed when
you did an npm install earlier.
So, what is it?
@urql that's how you know when
an open source project made it,
they get that at namespace,
like they go from just urql and
then like they get some donations and
now it's @urql so
let's see though they got some sponsors.
Cool, so we got these few things.
I'm just gonna copy them.
Gotta put them in here.
Well, we'll talk about these in
a minute when we start using them.
We're also gonna get useMemo from
Reacts which rip is basically dead,
with new React 19, which I'm sure Brian's
gonna teach a course on very soon.
And yeah, just to keep this,
if you never use Next.js app router,
this won't mean anything to you,
but if you have what I'm doing.
You have to put this directive
at the top called use client.
If you don't know if this means, this just
means I just wanna stay in React land.
Don't give me any of
the server side Next.js stuff.
Just keep this vanilla
client side React please.
So that's what we're gonna do for
this whole course.
I don't want to get into
next day a specific thing.
So I'm gonna be doing use client pretty
much in all my components just to make
sure that what we're doing here can
apply to any React app that you use.
But note gone forward, React 19
does support server components and
all this stuff.
It's not specific to Next.js.
Next.js didn't invent server components.
React did, so in the future,
none of this is gonna matter.
You're probably gonna do server
stuff anyway, but just so
we can just get rid of
that barrier of all that.
I'm just gonna put use client everywhere.
And then also, I just don't think
it makes sense to do GraphQL on
a server component in the same
API that your app is hosted on.
Because you can just talk
to the database directly,
you can just skip the network requests and
just pull in your ORM.
So it doesn't really make sense,
in my opinion,
to do GraphQL on the server
if you're using Next.js.
So we're just gonna use use client
that just makes more sense.
So there we go this cache exchange.
This is the normalised caching.
And again, we'll talk more
about that in a little bit.
But this right here, you get to get
is like Redux is basically the Redux.
It's like Redux.
It's like automatic Redux for all your
entities from your GraphQL queries it'll
like figure out where they need to go and
like store them in a Redux the way and
and do updates that way.
That's basically what this is.
I don't know why they may have to come
up with terms like cache exchange and
like, all this stuff.
I don't know.
These other inputs here and these are just
utility functions that I created.
You can go look at them, but
basically this URL function
right here just figures out
the full path of the URL.
If you go to production, it'll be that.
If not, I'm assuming you're on 3,000 and
it's gonna be that.
That's actually where the GraphQL API is.
We'll load it up in a second
you'll see what I'm talking about.
>> Scott Moss: And then this getToken one.
We're using JSON Web Tokens for
authentication, so
this getToken function just gets
the token from local storage.
That's all it does nothing fancy.
I'm not using cookies.
I tried to use cookies, and the way that I
have API set up on server, it just wasn't
working, and I didn't feel like doing
the hack and explaining the hack.
So we're using, we're just gonna
store it in local storage.
But in production, you probably
wanna store your JSON Web Tokens in
a secure HTTP only cookie for sure.
And just have it be sent every single
time, assuming you're on the same domain.
If you're not,
then this point doesn't matter.
Okay, so
the goal here is to make a provider.
And then we're gonna make a client
that we need to memoize and
then we're going to wrap
the children in that.
So let's do that.
So I'm gonna export default GQLProvider
call it whatever you want, really.
Actually, you know what?
I don't know why I have it like that in
notes cuz I actually write my functions
like this.
I just like arrow functions way better.
So I'm just gonna go to
an arrow function here.
And I like to just export
default at the bottom.
>> Scott Moss: There we go,
so we got that.
I know this thing's gonna take its
children because it's a provider,
so there's gonna be children here,
so I'm gonna take that.
And then from here, the strategy is we
just want to keep the same client for
the whole app.
Because if we make a new
client every single time,
then we're gonna a new
redux every single time.
And then what's the point?
So we want the whole app to
experience the same cache.
If you were doing this server side,
you definitely want a new
client every request.
Otherwise all your users would
share the same cache and
that would be a security risk.
So you wanna create the client on
the fly per request on the server side,
which is another reason why I'm
doing use client everywhere.
So I don't have to address that and
talk about it because I think that's too
specific to Next.js and I said that
we will cover the Next.js course.
So for this one, we're gonna use memo and
we're gonna create this client.
So let's do that.
So we're gonna say const clients and
then what do I have here?
Yeah, ssr equals useMemo if you
don't know what useMemo is,
it's basically a hook that memorizes
a function to memorize something
basically just means if I call this
function again with the same arguments,
give me the results that you compute it
the first time and don't compute it again.
This is perfect for the client.
That way, if I try to get the client,
it'll just give me the client that it
created the first time and
won't create it again.
So that's what memorization is.
It's a hook, so we pass it
dependency array of nothing because
we just wanted to run on the initial
render of this component and never again.
So we have that and then, what we wanna do
is we have to create this SSR exchange.
The best way I could describe this well,
I guess I need to describe exchanges for
a little bit and exchanges is a plugin.
Why do they call it exchange?
I don't know.
It's just a plugin.
Apollo calls it a link,
I think Urql calls it an exchange.
It's literally just a plugin.
This SSR plugin just makes sure that this
doesn't break on server, essentially.
And you might be thinking like,
why is this gonna run on a server?
I thought you put use client.
Next.js it's a little tricky.
There's a difference between server
components and server side rendering.
Those are two different things by
doing use client, I opt out of server
components, but this component
still does server side rendering.
Still gets rendered on the server,
its business logic won't execute in
the context of a server like
a server component would.
So it's not streamable it doesn't
have a suspense built into it.
So it's not a server component, but
it will be rendered on the server.
So if I just throw the word window
in here it will 100% break.
So I have to do type of window
how to do things like that.
And this plugin,
this ensures that the cache
gets transferred over from
server side rendering
to client side rendering on hydration
cuz that's actually what happens.
If you don't know hydration is
it's basically just an object that
gets created on the server with
all the data that you made and
then it gets passed to the frontend so
the frontend can pick it up.
It's just like an exchange of
data over the network layer.
This just makes sure
that that runs smoothly.
Yeah, that's what this is so we got that.
And then we can actually
create our clients.
This one interesting so
let's walk through this one.
So let's say,
>> Scott Moss: Client equal and
then we have the createClients
function here.
This is gonna take an options object.
There's a few things.
We have the URL.
So this is our input to our GraphQL API,
which for
us is gonna be 3,000/API/GraphQL.
It's already there.
And then we have our plugins,
fancy exchanges here.
And then we have options
we wanna do on fetch.
So let's do that.
So we have our URL.
It's already in my scope,
so I can just do that.
And then we have our exchanges,
aka plugins.
We're gonna do the cache exchange,
which is a function.
I'm just gonna put an empty object
in there for now, like that.
We're gonna pass in the SSR like that.
But then we need to pass
in the fetchExchange.
fetchExchange is exactly
what it sounds like.
It's telling Uqrl to use
fetch to make the API calls.
You can have, like for instance,
if you didn't wanna use fetch,
you wanna use Axios or some other
custom HTTP library that you created,
you would make an exchange and use that
instead, but anybody got time for that.
So we're gonna use fetch.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, and then lastly,
it's gonna be fetchOptions.
fetchOptions, this is
gonna be a function and
it returns an object of like options
you wanna pass to the fetch.
Literally anything you
can pass to window.fetch,
you can pretty much pass here.
So what we wanna do, the strategy is like,
we wanna send our JSON Web Token
on every single request.
That way it's always there.
You would do this with fetch anyway.
So what we wanna do is like go look
in local stores, get the token.
If it's there add it to the authorization
headers a getToken, if not,
just return an empty object.
So that's what we're gonna do here,
just to make sure we can pass our token.
If you use cookies,
you won't have to do this.
>> Scott Moss: So I'm gonna say getToken,
and then I'm gonna return.
If there is a token, then I'm gonna return
an object with headers
that has authorization.
And it's gonna be bearer and
then the token and
then if there is no token was
gonna put it in the object,
>> Scott Moss: Pretty straight forward,
nothing crazy there.
And then we just need to return
a tuple here with our client and
our SSR since we're
trying to destructure it.
So I'm just gonna do that,
return our client and ssr.
>> Scott Moss: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: So now that we have
our client, we can go ahead and
start creating this provider.
It's pretty simple,
we're just gonna return the UrqlProvider.
I really like that name Urql.
I'm like where can I use that?
Get a cat, another cat or
a dog named Urql.
That would be cool, UrqlProvider.
We just need to pass it the client, pass
it the SSR plugin, and then obviously,
wrap the children.
So let's just do that really quick.
So I'm gonna return that,
get our UrqlProvider,
and then clients is gonna be clients.
And then SSR is gonna be SSR and
then wrap our children.
Otherwise, nothing's gonna
show up on the page.
>> Scott Moss: And just like that, three
easy steps, we have our UrqlProvider.
>> Scott Moss: So
why do we need a provider?
You don't need a provider
to do window.fetch.
So why do we need this?
Well, it's just for caching.
It's just for caching and for
this logic that's literally it.
It's like, if you might not know this, but
there's a hook in React called useReducer.
It's like, why would you use this?
UseReducer, it's like a local Redux for
a component, but
if you wanted this to work
across your whole app,
you would put this in a context so
your whole app can share the same reducer.
Otherwise, how would they know?
How would they share?
So in order for us to share the cache,
we have to create a provider,
because react uses context,
which is just like internal state.
Context is basically like props that don't
need to be passed down, any component can
access the context, no matter what
their parent is directly to it.
So if all the state is in the context,
then any component in your app
should be able to access this cache.
Which means you should be able to use
Urql queries anywhere in your app and
access the same cache,
which is the whole point.
So that's why we need a provider.
Will it work without one?
Absolutely they'll just all
have no cache to share.
So next thing we need to do is go to our
providers.tsx and we need to include it,
I'm sorry, we need to go to
our layout.tsx on the root.
There's a lot of layouts.
Make sure you go to the one on
the on the root of app should be
/app layout.tsx not the one in I'm sorry.
This one, not the one in auth,
almost messed up.
Not the one in auth,
not the one in dashboard, but this one.
One on the route.
It's a lot of layouts.
It's the Next.js thing.
It's layout everybody gets a layout now.
So what we're gonna do is this provider's
run here is for our component library.
I'm going to pass in our UrqlProvider
inside of this one or what Did I call it?
Is my core UrqlProvider?
GQLProvider, okay.
I'm gonna pass mine inside the providers,
the component library.
And the reason I'm doing that is
just because I don't know what this
component library does, what its context.
And I don't wanna wrap it inside of
my context and mess it up somehow,
like I don't know, maybe this
component library does GraphQL stuff,
maybe it uses Urql internally.
And if I wrap it inside of my context, my
UrqlProvider it could conflict with that.
So I'm gonna put mine inside of
the component library one I know for
sure it doesn't, but
that's just me being careful.
I've had things like that to pass and
those are the hardest bots to
track down because it won't break.
It just won't behave the way you thought
it would and you'd like what's going on?
And it's like, the providers are weird
because this thing uses something similar.
So, always just try to get as close to the
children as possible with my providers and
keep third-party providers
outside of my providers,
it's like a priority provider thing.
Nobody really talks about that,
but it's real.